## Downloads  

Browse the PANTHER ftp site: [ftp://ftp.pantherdb.org/](ftp://ftp.pantherdb.org/)*   [PANTHER HMM library Version 13.1] (ftp://ftp.pantherdb.org/panther_library/current_release) Contains the PANTHER HMMs for 15524 protein family HMMs, divided into 79562 functionally distinct protein subfamily HMMs. The PANTHER HMMs are in the [HMMER](http://hmmer.org/) format. There is also a version of the library available that can be used for the Coding SNP Analysis tool. _release date 2018-02-03_  

    *   [PANTHER HMM Scoring tool](ftp://ftp.pantherdb.org/hmm_scoring/current_release)    
    Download the PANTHER scoring tool, to score protein sequences against the entire PANTHER HMM library and analyze your sequences. _release date May 25, 2011_  

*   [PANTHER Coding SNP Analysis tool](ftp://ftp.pantherdb.org/cSNP_analysis/current_release)    
    Download the PANTHER Coding SNP Analysis tool to estimate the likelihood that a particular nonsynonymous (amino-acid changing) coding SNP will cause a functional impact to the protein. _release date June 6, 2016_. The previous version of the tool is available from [here](ftp://ftp.pantherdb.org//cSNP_analysis/1.03/).  

*   [PANTHER Generic Mapping](ftp://ftp.pantherdb.org/generic_mapping)    
    PANTHER Generic Mapping package contains the data and a script that can easily convert a gene list that is not from one of the genomes in the PANTHER database to a PANTHER Generic Mapping file so that it can be analyzed in the PANTHER system. _release date May 30, 2018_.  

*   [GIGA](ftp://ftp.pantherdb.org/downloads/GIGA/)    
    GIGA is an efficient tree building program that allows phylogenetic reconstruction of very large gene families and determination of orthologs on a large scale. It is used to generate trees in the PANTHER Classification System. _release date August 15, 2011 (version 1.4 updated April 2015)_  

*   [PANTHER Pathway 3.6.1](ftp://ftp.pantherdb.org/pathway/current_release)  
    Contains 177 regulatory and metabolic pathways, each with subfamilies and protein sequences mapped to individual pathway components. All pathway diagrams are available in both SBML and BioPAX level 3 format. SBML files, BioPAX files and Protein Sequence Association data are available for download.  

*   [PANTHER sequence classification files](ftp://ftp.pantherdb.org/sequence_classifications/current_release)  
    Contains the PANTHER family, subfamily, molecular function, biological process, and pathway classifications for the the complete proteomes derived from the human, mouse, rat and Drosophila melanogaster genomes, as well as the classifications of all proteins in the UniProt dataset.  

*   [PANTHER HMM Classification file](ftp://ftp.pantherdb.org/hmm_classifications/current_release)  
    Contains the PANTHER family/subfamily name, and the molecular function, biological process, and pathway classifications for every PANTHER protein family and subfamily in PANTHER HMM library Version 13.1.  

*   [PAINT](/downloads/TreeViewerApplication.tar)  
    PAINT is a java application for viewing tree files. Minimum Java version 1.4 required. To install, uncompress the download file and execute launchTAV.bat for windows or sh launchTAV.sh for MAC.  

*   [CellDesigner™](http://www.celldesigner.org/)  
    CellDesigner™ is a software program for drawing pathway networks and capture molecular events using controlled graphic notations. The diagrams generated by Cell Designer are stored in SBML (Systems Biology Markup Language) format, and can be shared by other software that supports the same standard.